README.md, before:

# TinyReactive

TinyReactive is a deliberately small reactive data store designed as a learning resource. The code is intentionally compact, the demos are meant to be stepped through with browser devtools, and every design choice lives in a handful of source files. If you want to explore state management without a heavyweight framework, this repo lets you inspect the implementation and debug it live through published sample pages.

## Table of contents
- [Why TinyReactive](#why-tinyreactive)
- [Key ideas](#key-ideas)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Samples](#samples)
- [Demo](#demo)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Why TinyReactive
Traditional DOM scripting couples event handlers, data, and rendering logic so tightly that a single state change ripples through the view layer manually. A reactive store breaks that dependency chain. Components describe **what** slice of data they care about, the store notifies them **when** that slice changes, and the UI becomes a projection of current state instead of a bag of DOM mutations.

TinyReactive keeps the focus on separation of concerns:

- **Data first.** Work with plain objects that represent application state.
- **Declarative subscriptions.** Selectors extract only the data a subscriber needs.
- **Scheduled updates.** Notifications are batched on `requestAnimationFrame`, so the DOM updates after state settles.

## Key ideas
The store implementation lives in [`src/store.js`](src/store.js) with an ES module wrapper in [`src/store.module.js`](src/store.module.js). The public API is intentionally small:

```js
const store = createStore(initialState);

store.get();
store.set(newState);
store.patch(partialState);
store.subscribe(callback, selector?);
```

- `createStore(initialState)` returns an object with `get`, `set`, `patch`, and `subscribe`.
- `get()` returns the latest snapshot of state.
- `set(newState)` replaces the state and queues notifications.
- `patch(partialState)` shallow merges updates before emitting changes.
- `subscribe(callback, selector?)` registers a listener. The callback runs immediately with the initial selected value and only runs again when that value changes.

Internally, TinyReactive keeps a `Set` of subscribers. Each subscriber caches the last value from its selector, so updates fire only when needed. Notifications are deferred with `requestAnimationFrame` (or `queueMicrotask`/`setTimeout` outside the browser) to ensure all mutations settle before DOM work. Selector or subscriber failures are caught, logged, and unsubscribed so a single bug cannot stall the store.

## Getting started
Clone the repo and open the samples locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/zmandel/tinyreactive.git
cd tinyreactive
```

The project is framework-free; open the minimal demo at [`samples/minimal/index.html`](samples/minimal/index.html) directly in your browser. For richer examples such as [`samples/tasks-app`](samples/tasks-app/), run a local dev server instead:

```sh
cd samples/tasks-app
npm install
npm run dev
```

Then open the provided local URL in your browser.

## Usage
Import the store factory and wire it to your UI code:

```html
<div id="count">0</div>
<button>Increment</button>

<script type="module">
  import { createStore } from './src/store.module.js';

  const store = createStore({ count: 0 });

  store.subscribe(value => {
    document.querySelector('#count').textContent = value;
  }, state => state.count);

  document
    .querySelector('button')
    .addEventListener('click', () => store.patch({ count: store.get().count + 1 }));
</script>
```

Subscribers receive the initial value immediately and only update when the selector output changes. Because state reads go through `store.get()`, you can swap in persistence (e.g. `localStorage`) or devtools hooks without touching the rest of your UI.

## Samples
The `samples` directory shows the building blocks in action:

- [`samples/minimal`](samples/minimal/) wires a counter to the store in fewer than 40 lines. The subscription renders the count, and the click handler only patches the changing field.
- [`samples/tasks-app`](samples/tasks-app/) scales the same primitives into a to-do app. Start by watching the notification panel to observe each subscriber's messages so you can trace how data travels through the store. Independent subscriptions render the list, summary, filter buttons, and notification panel. Selectors such as `state => state.todos` keep updates targeted.

## Demo
Prefer a hosted version? Inspect the running examples directly:

👉 [TinyReactive on GitHub Pages](https://zmandel.github.io/tinyreactive/)

Open the devtools, set breakpoints, and watch how state changes travel through selectors into the UI.

## Contributing
Issues and pull requests are welcome. If you find a bug or have a teaching-oriented enhancement, open a discussion so others can learn from the change.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Highlight production use in README intro

README.md, after:

# TinyReactive

TinyReactive is a deliberately small reactive data store that doubles as both a learning resource and a dependable tool for shipping interfaces. The code is intentionally compact, the demos are meant to be stepped through with browser devtools, and every design choice lives in a handful of source files. If you want to explore state management without a heavyweight framework, this repo lets you inspect the implementation and debug it live through published sample pages—while also relying on the same store that powers production experiences such as [tutorforme.org](https://tutorforme.org).

## Table of contents
- [Why TinyReactive](#why-tinyreactive)
- [Key ideas](#key-ideas)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Samples](#samples)
- [Demo](#demo)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Why TinyReactive
Traditional DOM scripting couples event handlers, data, and rendering logic so tightly that a single state change ripples through the view layer manually. A reactive store breaks that dependency chain. Components describe **what** slice of data they care about, the store notifies them **when** that slice changes, and the UI becomes a projection of current state instead of a bag of DOM mutations.

TinyReactive keeps the focus on separation of concerns:

- **Data first.** Work with plain objects that represent application state.
- **Declarative subscriptions.** Selectors extract only the data a subscriber needs.
- **Scheduled updates.** Notifications are batched on `requestAnimationFrame`, so the DOM updates after state settles.

## Key ideas
The store implementation lives in [`src/store.js`](src/store.js) with an ES module wrapper in [`src/store.module.js`](src/store.module.js). The public API is intentionally small:

```js
const store = createStore(initialState);

store.get();
store.set(newState);
store.patch(partialState);
store.subscribe(callback, selector?);
```

- `createStore(initialState)` returns an object with `get`, `set`, `patch`, and `subscribe`.
- `get()` returns the latest snapshot of state.
- `set(newState)` replaces the state and queues notifications.
- `patch(partialState)` shallow merges updates before emitting changes.
- `subscribe(callback, selector?)` registers a listener. The callback runs immediately with the initial selected value and only runs again when that value changes.

Internally, TinyReactive keeps a `Set` of subscribers. Each subscriber caches the last value from its selector, so updates fire only when needed. Notifications are deferred with `requestAnimationFrame` (or `queueMicrotask`/`setTimeout` outside the browser) to ensure all mutations settle before DOM work. Selector or subscriber failures are caught, logged, and unsubscribed so a single bug cannot stall the store.

## Getting started
Clone the repo and open the samples locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/zmandel/tinyreactive.git
cd tinyreactive
```

The project is framework-free; open the minimal demo at [`samples/minimal/index.html`](samples/minimal/index.html) directly in your browser. For richer examples such as [`samples/tasks-app`](samples/tasks-app/), run a local dev server instead:

```sh
cd samples/tasks-app
npm install
npm run dev
```

Then open the provided local URL in your browser.

## Usage
Import the store factory and wire it to your UI code:

```html
<div id="count">0</div>
<button>Increment</button>

<script type="module">
  import { createStore } from './src/store.module.js';

  const store = createStore({ count: 0 });

  store.subscribe(value => {
    document.querySelector('#count').textContent = value;
  }, state => state.count);

  document
    .querySelector('button')
    .addEventListener('click', () => store.patch({ count: store.get().count + 1 }));
</script>
```

Subscribers receive the initial value immediately and only update when the selector output changes. Because state reads go through `store.get()`, you can swap in persistence (e.g. `localStorage`) or devtools hooks without touching the rest of your UI.

## Samples
The `samples` directory shows the building blocks in action:

- [`samples/minimal`](samples/minimal/) wires a counter to the store in fewer than 40 lines. The subscription renders the count, and the click handler only patches the changing field.
- [`samples/tasks-app`](samples/tasks-app/) scales the same primitives into a to-do app. Start by watching the notification panel to observe each subscriber's messages so you can trace how data travels through the store. Independent subscriptions render the list, summary, filter buttons, and notification panel. Selectors such as `state => state.todos` keep updates targeted.

## Demo
Prefer a hosted version? Inspect the running examples directly:

👉 [TinyReactive on GitHub Pages](https://zmandel.github.io/tinyreactive/)

Open the devtools, set breakpoints, and watch how state changes travel through selectors into the UI.

## Contributing
Issues and pull requests are welcome. If you find a bug or have a teaching-oriented enhancement, open a discussion so others can learn from the change.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
